WORD MEANING

1.savage = (of an animal or force of nature) fierce, violent, and uncontrolled.
"packs of savage dogs roamed the streets"

2.hallucination = an experience involving the apparent perception of something not present.(illusion)
"he continued to suffer from horrific hallucinations"

3.perception = the ability to see, hear, or become aware of something through the senses.
"the normal limits to human perception"
awareness of something through the senses.
"the perception of pain"

4.tatters = irregularly torn pieces of cloth, paper, or other material.
"he was forced to wear rags and tatters a beggar would scorn"

5.scorn = a feeling and expression of contempt or disdain for someone or something.
"I do not wish to become the object of scorn"

6.contempt = the feeling that a person or a thing is worthless or beneath consideration.
"Pam stared at the girl with total contempt"

7.disdain = the feeling that someone or something is unworthy of one's consideration or respect.
"her upper lip curled in disdain"

8.rabble = a disorderly crowd; a mob.
"he was met by a rabble of noisy, angry youths"

9.bastard = a person born of parents not married to each other.

10.brawl = a rough or noisy fight or quarrel.(fight,fist fight)
"he'd got into a drunken brawl in a bar"

11.contemptible = deserving contempt; despicable.(hateful)
"a display of contemptible cowardice"

12.despicable = deserving hatred and contempt.
"a despicable crime"

13.confrontation = a hostile or argumentative situation or meeting between opposing parties.
"a confrontation with the legislature"

14.desperate = feeling or showing a hopeless sense that a situation is so bad as to be impossible to deal with.(hopeless)
"a desperate sadness enveloped Ruth"
(of a person) having a great need or desire for something.
"I am desperate for a cigarette"

15.imposing = grand and impressive in appearance.(impressive)
"an imposing 17th-century manor house"

16.nimble = quick and light in movement or action; agile.
"with a deft motion of her nimble fingers"

17.agile = able to move quickly and easily.
"Ruth was as agile as a monkey"

18.overwhelm = bury or drown beneath a huge mass of something, especially water.
"floodwaters overwhelmed hundreds of houses"
have a strong emotional effect on.
"I was overwhelmed with guilt"

19.conceive = create (an embryo) by fertilizing an egg.
"she was conceived when her father was 49"
(of a woman) become pregnant.
"five months ago Wendy conceived"
form or devise (a plan or idea) in the mind.
"the dam project was originally conceived in 1977"
become affected by (a feeling).
"I had conceived a passion for another"

20.scathe = harm; injure.
"he was barely scathed"

21.emanate = (of a feeling, quality, or sensation) issue or spread out from (a source).(emerge,emit)
"warmth emanated from the fireplace"

22.emancipation = the fact or process of being set free from legal, social, or political restrictions; liberation.
"the social and political emancipation of women"

23.negotiate = obtain or bring about by discussion.(reach an agreement on)
"he negotiated a new contract with the sellers"
find a way over or through (an obstacle or difficult route).
"she cautiously negotiated the hairpin bend"

24.pesky =  causing trouble; annoying.
"a pesky younger brother"

25.avenge = inflict harm in return for (an injury or wrong done to oneself or another).(revenge)
"he vowed in silent fervour to avenge their murders"

26.commendable = deserving praise.(admirable)
"he showed commendable restraint"

27.futile = incapable of producing any useful result; pointless.
"a futile attempt to keep fans from mounting the stage"

28.peril = serious and immediate danger.
"you could well place us both in peril"
"a situation fraught with peril"

the risks or difficulties that arise from a particular situation or activity.
"she first witnessed the perils of pop stardom a decade ago"

29.retaliation = the action of returning a military attack; counter-attack.
"the bombings are believed to be in retaliation for the trial of 15 suspects"

30.vengeance = punishment inflicted or retribution exacted for an injury or wrong.
"voters are ready to wreak vengeance on all politicians"

31.pummel = strike repeatedly with the fists.
"he felt like a boxer who had been pummelled mercilessly against the ropes"

32.pommel = a rounded knob on the end of the handle of a sword, dagger, or old-fashioned gun.

33.realm = a kingdom.
"the defence of the realm"
a field or domain of activity or interest.(area,field)
"the realm of applied chemistry"

34.domain = an area of territory owned or controlled by a particular ruler or government.
"the French domains of the Plantagenets"

35.fluke = an unlikely chance occurrence, especially a surprising piece of luck.
"their victory was a bit of a fluke"

36.wimpy = weak and cowardly or feeble.
"I'm too wimpy to express my own opinions"

37.revel =enjoy oneself in a lively and noisy way, especially with drinking and dancing.(celebrate)
"a night of drunken revelling"

38.rebel = a person who rises in opposition or armed resistance against an established government or leader.
"Tory rebels"

39.mutiny = (noun)an open rebellion against the proper authorities, especially by soldiers or sailors against their officers.
"a mutiny by those manning the weapons could trigger a global war"
verb
refuse to obey the orders of a person in authority.
"thousands of the soldiers mutinied over the non-payment of wages"

40.mutineer = a person, especially a soldier or sailor, who rebels or refuses to obey the orders of a person in authority.
"those who resisted were denounced as mutineers and treated accordingly"

41.wallop = (verb)strike or hit very hard.
"they walloped the back of his head with a stick"
heavily defeat (an opponent).
"we were walloped by Milan"

noun
a heavy blow or punch.
"I gave it a wallop with my boot"

42.obssession = the state of being obsessed with someone or something.
"she cared for him with a devotion bordering on obsession"

an idea or thought that continually preoccupies or intrudes on a person's mind.
"he was in the grip of an obsession he was powerless to resist"

43.incite = encourage or stir up (violent or unlawful behaviour).
"they conspired to incite riots"

44.spectacle = a visually striking performance or display.
"the acrobatic feats make a good spectacle"

45.rival = be or seem to be equal or comparable to.
"the efficiency of the Bavarians rivals that of the Viennese"

46.moderation = the avoidance of excess or extremes, especially in one's behaviour or political opinions.(self-discipline)
"he urged the police to show moderation"

47.vigour = physical strength and good health.
"the springing curls were a sign of vigour and health"

48.renaissance = the revival of European art and literature under the influence of classical models in the 14th–16th centuries.
"the culture and style of art and architecture developed during the Renaissance."

 a revival of or renewed interest in something.
"cinema-going is enjoying something of a renaissance"

49.pertinacious = holding firmly to an opinion or a course of action.
"he worked with a pertinacious resistance to interruptions"(determined,persistent)

50.persecution = hostility and ill-treatment, especially because of race or political or religious beliefs; oppression.
"her family fled religious persecution"

harassment, hounding, harrying, badgering, teasing, bullying, molestation
"the persecution I endured at school got worse as I got older"
persistent annoyance or harassment.
"his persecution at the hands of other students"

51.pandering = gratify or indulge (an immoral or distasteful desire or taste or a person with such a desire or taste).
"newspapers are pandering to people's baser instincts"

52.whim = a sudden desire or change of mind, especially one that is unusual or unexplained.
"she bought it on a whim"

a windlass for raising ore or water from a mine.

53.perplexed = completely baffled; very puzzled.
"she gave him a perplexed look"

54.ordained = order (something) officially.
"equal punishment was ordained for the two crimes"

55.deplorable = deserving strong condemnation; completely unacceptable.
"children living in deplorable conditions"

56.pristine = in its original condition; unspoilt.
"pristine copies of an early magazine"

clean and fresh as if new; spotless.
"a pristine white shirt"

57.solidarity = unity or agreement of feeling or action, especially among individuals with a common interest; mutual support within a group.
"factory workers voiced solidarity with the striking students"

58.whimsical = playfully quaint or fanciful, especially in an appealing and amusing way.
"a whimsical sense of humour"

59.arduous = involving or requiring strenuous effort; difficult and tiring.
"an arduous journey"

60.seraph = (plural) seraphim
an angelic being, regarded in traditional Christian angelology as belonging to the highest order of the ninefold celestial hierarchy, associated with light, ardour, and purity.

61.quaint = attractively unusual or old-fashioned.
"quaint country cottages"

62.ardour = great enthusiasm or passion.
"the rebuff did little to dampen his ardour"

63.apex = the top or highest part of something, especially one forming a point.
"the apex of the roof"

64.pinnacle = the most successful point; the culmination.
"he had reached the pinnacle of his career"

65.whipped = having been flogged or beaten with a whip.
"a whipped dog"

worn out; exhausted.

66.ablaze = burning fiercely.
"his clothes were ablaze"

67.asunder = apart.
"those whom God hath joined together let no man put asunder"

68.cascading = (of water) pour downwards rapidly and in large quantities.
"water was cascading down the stairs"

69.ravaged = severely damaged; devastated.
"he hopes to visit his ravaged homeland"

70.soliloquy = an act of speaking one's thoughts aloud when by oneself or regardless of any hearers, especially by a character in a play.
"Edmund ends the scene as he had begun it, with a soliloquy"

71.congeal = become semi-solid, especially on cooling.
"the blood had congealed into blobs"

72.reverberate = (of a loud noise) be repeated several times as an echo.
"her deep booming laugh reverberated around the room"

73.frolic = play or move about in a cheerful and lively way.
"Edward frolicked on the sand"

74.relinquish = voluntarily cease to keep or claim; give up.
"he relinquished his managerial role to become chief executive"

75.menacing = suggesting the presence of danger; threatening.
"our officers encountered menacing looks from teenagers"

76.intractable = hard to control or deal with.
"intractable economic problems"

77.ergo = therefore.
"she was the sole beneficiary of the will, ergo the prime suspect"

78.apprehensive = anxious or fearful that something bad or unpleasant will happen.
"he felt apprehensive about going home"

79.belligerent = hostile and aggressive.
"the mood at the meeting was belligerent"

80.hostile = showing or feeling opposition or dislike; unfriendly.
"a hostile audience"

81.fusillade = a series of shots fired or missiles thrown all at the same time or in quick succession.
"marchers had to dodge a fusillade of missiles"

82.jittery = nervous or unable to relax.
"caffeine makes me jittery"

83.commensalism = an association between two organisms in which one benefits and the other derives neither benefit nor harm.

commensal = relating to or exhibiting commensalism.

84.commensurate = corresponding in size or degree; in proportion.
"salary will be commensurate with age and experience"

85.somnolent = sleepy; drowsy.
causing or suggestive of drowsiness.
"a somnolent summer day"

86.frigid = very cold in temperature.
"the air was frigid, and spectators shivered against the cold"

87.gelid = icy; extremely cold.
"the gelid pond"

88.torrid = very hot and dry.
"the torrid heat of the afternoon"

89.horrid = very unpleasant or disagreeable.
"the teachers at school were horrid"

90.tropical = of, typical of, or peculiar to the tropics.
"tropical countries"

very hot and humid.
"some plants thrived in last year's tropical summer heat"

91.topical = (of a subject) of immediate relevance, interest, or importance owing to its relation to current events.
"a popular topical affairs programme"

current; recent

92.contemporary = living or occurring at the same time.
"the event was recorded by a contemporary historian"

dating from the same time.
"this series of paintings is contemporary with other works in an early style"

93.deft = neatly skilful and quick in one's movements.
"a deft piece of footwork"

demonstrating skill and cleverness.
"the script was both deft and literate"

94.graceful = having or showing grace or elegance.
"she was a tall girl, slender and graceful"

95.venal = showing or motivated by susceptibility to bribery; corrupt.
"local customs officers are notoriously venal"

96.venial = denoting a sin that is not regarded as depriving the soul of divine grace.
"we cannot prevent ourselves sometimes from dreaming of performing venial if not mortal sins"

(of a fault or offence) slight and pardonable.

97.pomp = ceremony and splendid display.
"entertaining overseas visitors with the right degree of pomp"

98.mediation = intervention in a dispute in order to resolve it; arbitration.
"the parties have sought mediation and it has failed"

99.delegate = a person sent or authorized to represent others, in particular an elected representative sent to a conference.
a member of a committee.

delegation = a body of delegates or representatives; a deputation.
"a delegation of teachers"

100.conciliation = the action of stopping someone being angry; placation.
"he held his hands up in a gesture of conciliation"

101.contention = heated disagreement.
"the captured territory was the main area of contention between the two countries"

102.endowed = provide with a quality, ability, or asset.
"he was endowed with tremendous physical strength"

103.imperialism = a policy of extending a country's power and influence through colonization, use of military force, or other means.
"the struggle against imperialism"

104.nausea = a feeling of sickness with an inclination to vomit.
"a wave of nausea engulfed him"

105.frantic = distraught with fear, anxiety, or other emotion.
"she was frantic with worry" ; panic-stricken

106.distraught = very worried and upset.
"distraught parents looking for a runaway teenager"

107.inexorable = impossible to stop or prevent.
"the seemingly inexorable march of new technology"

108.hasten = be quick to do something.
"he hastened to refute the assertion"

move or travel hurriedly.
"we hastened back to Paris"

109.refute = prove (a statement or theory) to be wrong or false; disprove.
"these claims have not been convincingly refuted"

110.tantamount = equivalent in seriousness to; virtually the same as.
"the resignations were tantamount to an admission of guilt"

111.predicament = a difficult, unpleasant, or embarrassing situation.
"the club's financial predicament"

112.hiatus = a pause or break in continuity in a sequence or activity.
"there was a brief hiatus in the war with France"

113.repercussion = an unintended consequence of an event or action, especially an unwelcome one.
"the move would have grave repercussions for the entire region"

114.truant = a pupil who stays away from school without leave or explanation.

115.timid = showing a lack of courage or confidence; easily frightened.
"I was too timid to ask for what I wanted"

116.laxative = Laxatives are a type of medicine that helps a person empty their bowels.

117.ingratiate = bring oneself into favour with someone by flattering or trying to please them.
"a sycophantic attempt to ingratiate herself with the local aristocracy"

118.sycophantic = behaving or done in an obsequious way in order to gain advantage.
"a sycophantic interview"

119.obsequious = obedient or attentive to an excessive or servile degree.
"they were served by obsequious waiters"

120.stoic = a person who can endure pain or hardship without showing their feelings or complaining.

121.gratis = without charge; free.
"a monthly programme was issued gratis"

122.hedonist = a person who believes that the pursuit of pleasure is the most important thing in life; a pleasure-seeker.
"she was living the life of a committed hedonist"

123.indigenous = originating or occurring naturally in a particular place; native.
"the indigenous peoples of Siberia"

124.congenital = (of a disease or physical abnormality) present from birth.
"a congenital malformation of the heart"

125.sheer = nothing other than; unmitigated (used for emphasis).
"she giggled with sheer delight"

126.mitigate = make (something bad) less severe, serious, or painful.
"drainage schemes have helped to mitigate this problem"

127.queer = strange; odd.
"she had a queer feeling that they were being watched"

128.provocation = action or speech that makes someone angry, especially deliberately.
"you should remain calm and not respond to provocation"

129.deck = a floor of a ship, especially the upper, open level extending for the full length of the vessel.
"he stood on the deck of his flagship"

130.quay = a stone or metal platform lying alongside or projecting into water for loading and unloading ships.

131.stern = (of a person or their manner) serious and unrelenting, especially in the assertion of authority and exercise of discipline.
"a smile transformed his stern face"

132.relent = abandon or mitigate a severe or harsh attitude, especially by finally yielding to a request.
"she was going to refuse his request, but relented"

133.apostate = a person who renounces a religious or political belief or principle.
"after fifty years as an apostate he returned to the faith"

134.profane = not relating to that which is sacred or religious; secular.
"a talk that tackled topics both sacred and profane"

(of a person) not initiated into religious rites or any esoteric knowledge.
"he was an agnostic, a profane man"

135.congest = crowd (a road or place) so as to hinder or prevent freedom of movement.
"uncontrolled development will congest our streets"

136.horrendous = extremely unpleasant, horrifying, or terrible.
"she suffered horrendous injuries"

137.dissemination = the action or fact of spreading something, especially information, widely.
"the dissemination of public information"

138.acquisition = the buying or obtaining of assets or objects.
"western culture places a high value on material acquisition"

139.embody = be an expression of or give a tangible or visible form to (an idea, quality, or feeling).
"a national team that embodies competitive spirit and skill"

140.psephology = the statistical study of elections and trends in voting.

141.cache = a collection of items of the same type stored in a hidden or inaccessible place.
"an arms cache"

142.acumen = the ability to make good judgements and take quick decisions.
"she hides a shrewd business acumen"

143.shrewd = having or showing sharp powers of judgement; astute.
"she was shrewd enough to guess the motive behind his gesture"

144.endeavour = try hard to do or achieve something.
"he is endeavouring to help the Third World"

145.precarious = not securely held or in position; dangerously likely to fall or collapse.
"a precarious ladder"

dependent on chance; uncertain.
"he made a precarious living as a painter"

146.proliferate = increase rapidly in number; multiply.
"the science fiction magazines which proliferated in the 1920s"

147.accomplice = a person who helps another commit a crime.
"an accomplice in the murder"

148.prosecution = the institution and conducting of legal proceedings against someone in respect of a criminal charge.
"the organizers are facing prosecution for noise nuisance"

149.litigation = the process of taking legal action.
"the company wishes to avoid litigation"

150.arraign = call or bring (someone) before a court to answer a criminal charge.
"her sister was arraigned on charges of attempted murder"

151.dandy = a man unduly concerned with looking stylish and fashionable.
"his floppy handkerchiefs and antique cufflinks gave him the look of a dandy"

152.pauper = a very poor person.
"he died a pauper"

153.bumpkin = an unsophisticated or socially awkward person from the countryside.
"she thought Tom a bit of a country bumpkin"

154.enigmatic = difficult to interpret or understand; mysterious.
"he took the money with an enigmatic smile"

155.indelible =  (of ink or a pen) making marks that cannot be removed.
"an indelible marker pen"

not able to be forgotten.
"the story made an indelible impression on me"

156.recalcitrant = having an obstinately uncooperative attitude towards authority or discipline.
"a class of recalcitrant fifteen-year-olds"

157.reticent = not revealing one's thoughts or feelings readily.
"she was extremely reticent about her personal affairs"

158.screed = a long speech or piece of writing, typically one regarded as tedious.
"her criticism appeared in the form of screeds in a local film magazine"

159.prop = a person or thing that is a major source of support or assistance.
"he found himself becoming the emotional prop of the marriage"